README.md, before:

## Overview

L10NSharp is a .NET localization library for Windows Forms applications. It collects strings which
need localization when your application first runs and saves them in a translation memory file. It
can also dynamically collect strings at runtime.

L10NSharp works with XLIFF files as translation memory.

[![Build, Test and Pack](https://github.com/sillsdev/l10nsharp/actions/workflows/CI-CD.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sillsdev/l10nsharp/actions/workflows/CI-CD.yml)

## How to use

[![NuGet version (L10NSharp)](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/L10NSharp.svg?style=flat-square)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/L10NSharp/)

L10NSharp is provided as a [nuget package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/L10NSharp).

To use L10NSharp in your application, simply call the `Create` method on `LocalizationManager`,
passing the location of the translation memory files and some other information:

```csharp
using (var lm = LocalizationManager.Create(lang, "SampleApp",
    "SampleApp", productVersion, directoryOfInstalledXliffFiles, "MyCompany/L10NSharpSample",
    icon, "sample@example.com", "SampleApp")
{
    // existing code to run the application
}
```

One of two conventions must be used to name xlf files (only the ones for requested languages
are loaded into memory, so we need the file names to tell us which ones to load).
By default, `directoryOfInstalledFiles` contains files named `Whatever.lang.xlf`; if
`LocalizationManager.UseLanguageCodeFolders` is true, then they are in folders whose names
are the language tags. These names must match the target-language declared in the XLF
for lazy loading to work properly. If the target-language is a multi-part tag (like `es-ES`),
the lang component in the file path may be either the full tag (`Whatever.es-ES.xlf` or
`es-ES/Whatever.xlf`) or its first component, the bare language tag (`Whatever.es.xlf`
or `es/Whatever.xlf`).

### Selecting a Language

If an exact match for the requested language is not available, L10NSharp will try to find the best available language. For example, if the client
requests `es` but only `Whatever.es-ES.xlf` is available, `Whatever.es-ES.xlf` will be loaded automatically, and vice versa. However, if the client
requests `es` and both `Whatever.es-ES.xlf` and `Whatever.es-MX.xlf` are available, or if no `Whatever.es[-details].xlf` is available, a dialog will
inform the user that the selected language is not available and prompt the user to select from the available languages.

## Thread safety

In general, L10NSharp is not written with thread safety in mind; callers should ensure
that only one thread at a time enters L10NSharp methods. There is one exception: we have
attempted to make the various varieties of `GetString` thread-safe,.

## L10NSharpExtender

To localize a Windows Forms form or control, simply add the `L10NSharpExtender`. It will
automatically collect all the localizable strings on your form or control and its children.

## Localizing Within the Application

L10NSharp provides a dialog for translating terms while running the application. The dialog can be
launched by Alt-Shift-clicking a Windows Forms element.

## Upgrading to a newer version

The [migration](https://github.com/sillsdev/l10nsharp/wiki/Migration) guide describes the
necessary changes when upgrading to a higher major version.

## Building

Just download the repository and build the solution (`L10NSharp.sln`).

The command line build command would look something like this:

```bash
dotnet build
```

## Running Unit Tests

We use NUnit to run our unit tests. NUnit is downloaded via NuGet.  There may be a few tests that
do not run, but all tests that run should pass.

The tests can be run from the command line like this:

```bash
dotnet test
```

It is also possible to run the tests from inside Visual Studio or Rider.

## Testing in client projects (as applicable):

  * Set an enviroment variable `LOCAL_NUGET_REPO` with the path to a folder on your computer (or local network) to publish locally-built packages
  * See [these instructions](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/nuget/hosting-packages/local-feeds) to enable local package sources
  * `build /t:pack` will pack nuget packages and publish them to `LOCAL_NUGET_REPO`

Further instructions at https://github.com/sillsdev/libpalaso/wiki/Developing-with-locally-modified-nuget-packages

Commit message:

Split L10NSharp to remove winforms dependency (#125)
* Remove Winforms dependency.
* Move UI code into WindowsForms/UI
* Split into two projects with only one dependent on winforms
* Update SampleApp csproj
* Cleanup & add ChooseFallbackLanguage in Winforms

Split L10NSharp into two parts to separate out the
portion that does not require use of Windows Forms
from the portion that does.

Additionally, remove System.Drawing dependency from
the Windows Forms independent portion.

Change L10NSharpWinforms to L10NSharp.Windows.Forms
Change L10NSharpWinformsTests to L10NSharp.Windows.Forms.Tests
Change L10NSharpTests folder to L10NSharp.Tests

+semver:major

README.md, after:

## Overview

L10NSharp is a .NET localization library. It collects strings which need localization when your
application first runs and saves them in a translation memory file. 

L10NSharp.Windows.Forms builds on L10NSharp and should be used for localization of Windows Forms applications.

L10NSharp works with XLIFF files as translation memory.

[![Build, Test and Pack](https://github.com/sillsdev/l10nsharp/actions/workflows/CI-CD.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sillsdev/l10nsharp/actions/workflows/CI-CD.yml)

## How to use

[![NuGet version (L10NSharp)](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/L10NSharp.svg?style=flat-square)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/L10NSharp/)

L10NSharp and L10NSharp.Windows.Forms are provided as [nuget packages](https://www.nuget.org/packages/L10NSharp).

To use L10NSharp in your application, call the `Create` method on `LocalizationManager`,
passing the location of the translation memory XLIFF files and some other information:

```csharp
using (var lm = LocalizationManager.Create(lang, "SampleApp",
    "SampleApp", productVersion, directoryOfInstalledXliffFiles, "MyCompany/L10NSharpSample",
    "sample@example.com", "SampleApp")
{
    // existing code to run the application
}
```

To use L10NSharp.Windows.Forms in your Windows forms application, you can call the `Create` method
on `LocalizationManagerWinforms` instead, passing the location of the translation memory XLIFF
files and the other information as above. Note that the `Create` for Windows forms applications can 
optionally include an additional icon argument:

```csharp
using (var lm = LocalizationManager.Create(lang, "SampleApp",
    "SampleApp", productVersion, directoryOfInstalledXliffFiles, "MyCompany/L10NSharpSample",
    icon, "sample@example.com", "SampleApp")
{
    // existing code to run the application
}
```

One of two conventions must be used to name xlf files (only the ones for requested languages
are loaded into memory, so we need the file names to tell us which ones to load).
By default, `directoryOfInstalledFiles` contains files named `Whatever.lang.xlf`; if
`LocalizationManager.UseLanguageCodeFolders` is true, then they are in folders whose names
are the language tags. These names must match the target-language declared in the XLF
for lazy loading to work properly. If the target-language is a multi-part tag (like `es-ES`),
the lang component in the file path may be either the full tag (`Whatever.es-ES.xlf` or
`es-ES/Whatever.xlf`) or its first component, the bare language tag (`Whatever.es.xlf`
or `es/Whatever.xlf`).

### Selecting a Language

If an exact match for the requested language is not available, L10NSharp will try to find the best available language. For example, if the client
requests `es` but only `Whatever.es-ES.xlf` is available, `Whatever.es-ES.xlf` will be loaded automatically, and vice versa. 

In L10NSharp.Windows.Forms, if the client
requests `es` and both `Whatever.es-ES.xlf` and `Whatever.es-MX.xlf` are available, or if no `Whatever.es[-details].xlf` is available, a Windows forms dialog will
inform the user that the selected language is not available and prompt the user to select from the available languages.

## Thread safety

In general, L10NSharp is not written with thread safety in mind; callers should ensure
that only one thread at a time enters L10NSharp methods. There is one exception: we have
attempted to make the various varieties of `GetString` thread-safe,.

## L10NSharpExtender

To localize a Windows Forms form or control, simply add the `L10NSharpExtender` from L10NSharp.Windows.Forms. It will
automatically collect all the localizable strings on your form or control and its children.

## Upgrading to a newer version

The [migration](https://github.com/sillsdev/l10nsharp/wiki/Migration) guide describes the
necessary changes when upgrading to a higher major version.

## Building

Just download the repository and build the solution (`L10NSharp.sln`).

The command line build command would look something like this:

```bash
dotnet build
```

## Running Unit Tests

We use NUnit to run our unit tests. NUnit is downloaded via NuGet.  There may be a few tests that
do not run, but all tests that run should pass.

The tests can be run from the command line like this:

```bash
dotnet test
```

It is also possible to run the tests from inside Visual Studio or Rider.

## Testing in client projects (as applicable):

  * Set an enviroment variable `LOCAL_NUGET_REPO` with the path to a folder on your computer (or local network) to publish locally-built packages
  * See [these instructions](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/nuget/hosting-packages/local-feeds) to enable local package sources
  * `build /t:pack` will pack nuget packages and publish them to `LOCAL_NUGET_REPO`

Further instructions at https://github.com/sillsdev/libpalaso/wiki/Developing-with-locally-modified-nuget-packages
